Thank you again, Ruth,
  I consider ruling things out progress!
  
  Would you say we have effectively ruled out that Leven was a POW in Halifax?
  
  The POW register dealing with German POWs in TNA and on FMP that you mention is for prisoners in Europe?  Does it specify which depots it covers?
  
  I came across this article searching online which I found interesting for context and perhaps clues... 
    The Release of Prisoners of War from Britain in 1813 and 1814  https://www.cairn.info/revue-napoleonica-la-revue-2014-3-page-118.htm#
	
	Here are some excerpts I found interesting...
	
	The decisive defeat of Napoleon at the Battle of Leipzig in 1813 convinced many of his German allies to throw in their lot 	with the Coalition forces.

	With the large numbers of Germans and Italians in the prison depots who were being conscripted into the forces arrayed against Napoleon, this was seen as potentially a serious problem.	

	There were already such nationalities being held at Valleyfield, so by August 1812 there were at least 641 Italians and 588 Germans collected at the depot.

	The only choice these men were given was that of which force they could join. From Valleyfield they enlisted into the King’s German Legion, the 1st Dutch Regiment and most of the Italians into the army of the King of Sardinia.
	
	Some of the specific British Prison Depots mentioned in the article include: Dartmoor, Plymouth, Stapleton, Norman Cross, Chatham, Portchester, Portsmouth, Valleyfield, Perth
	
	Would specific depots perhaps have registries of prisoners somewhere that can be searched?
	
	I think looking at the 1813 KGL records is worth a shot!  With so few straws left, I don't mind a little grasping.  One more try!  If it's 4 more hours to be exhaustive, so be it.  He has to have been a POW somewhere!
	
	I imagine this is familiar to you, but just to be thorough, I came across TNA guidelines for searching for POWs up to 1855 from http://www.nationalarchives.gov.uk/help-with-your-research/research-guides/prisoners-of-war-british-hands/#6-prisoners-of-war-up-to-1855

There is no general index to prisoners, so searching for individuals may be hard.
Search our catalogue within ADM 97, ADM 105 and ADM 103 and refine by date.
You can find:
    lists of prisoners, usually arranged by nationality or by place of confinement or parole, in ADM 103: these often include circumstances of their capture and eventual disposal – some of these are available on Findmypast (£)
    prisoners’ petitions in ADM 97
    lists of PoW exchanges, for example WO 40/2 and WO 1/905-16
    circumstances of capture and incarceration  in WO 1 and WO 4
An alphabetical list of American prisoners compiled by the University of Virginia is available at The National Archives and supplements a general register of American prisoners (1813) in ADM 6/417. Please note, ADM 6/417 is available on Findmypast (£).
Browse lists of enemy prisoners on parole in Britain in HO 28. This is not indexed.
	
	Fingers crossed,
	Todd