Some notes on Land Grants: 5 August 2019

Regarding Levi and the land grant issue.  I can only recall (from a not great memory after all these years) that I actually saw some documentation that he was a recipient of a land grant. 

As for Ruth’s comment about land being given to those who had fought in Europe I believe that is not accurate.  I have read several historical accounts of the military settlement including Martells “Military Settlements in Nova Scotia” and the Dalhousie Journals, vols 1,2.  My reading (fairly extensive) about the military settlements indicates that there were multiple efforts to settle military veterans from both Europe and the U.S. in that area. 

Martell writes (p. 77) 
Those who took up land in Nova Scotia were of three types: fencibles, regulars, and pensioners.  The fencibles, who were colonial troops used for the special purpose of colonial defence, seem to have been the best settlers..  Accustomed from their boyhood to the ways of the new world, they had an initial advantage over the regulars recruited in the old country who, in turn, were better fitted to battle the wilderness than the poor and often decrepit pensioners.  The fencibles disbanded in Nova Scotia belonged to the Royal Nova Scotia Fencibles and the Royal Newfoundland Fencibles.  Both of these corps, raised when the French war was resumed in 1803 to do garrison duty in the lower provinces, saw service in Canada during the war of 1812.  The regulars were men from regiments of the line, particularly the 60th and the 99th…and from the royal artillery.  Most of them had been on colonial service for a considerable period, and some of them had been recruited in the colonies.  Only a few were fresh from Europe.  The pensioners, on the other hand, came directly from England where they had been inmates of the Chelsea Royal Hospital.

(From p. 93)
… In the meantime, about fifty Germans of the 7th battalion of the 60th had expressed their desire to settle in Lunenburg county.  These men had fought with Wellington in Europe and with Sherbrooke at Castine, and Dalhousie had no hesitation in suggesting that they receive a share of His Majesty’s bounty. …



